# Customer-prediction-and-Ontology-based-recommendation-system

The ever-expanding world of E-Commerce presents a treasure trove of opportunities to innovate and improve the shopping experience. With shoppers wanting a more personalized experience, and sellers looking to boost revenue, recommender systems naturally serve both goals, making it a win-win scenario. Keeping this in mind, this project puts a unique twist on the traditional  recommendation systems used for E-Commerce, while keeping implementation fixed to the retail sector. We use the model to suggest alternate products that are costlier to some customers, and alternate products that are cheaper to other customers. Our system categorises customer into three groups, and then uses information from that to further suggest products. This implementation is two-fold; firstly, we try to classify shoppers based on the likelihood that they will abandon this product, using a variety of metrics. Depending on the result from this, they are fed into another model which understands their purchasing intention better. We next use information about the interested customer and other customers to try to identify other similar users. The system then identifies other products that can be suggested as an alternate to the product being viewed. It also incorporates other metrics that will make the probability of purchase higher. All of the customer and product related information is stored in an Ontology, which helps to preserve the relationships between classes. The objective of our project is to implement this system, thereby creating a model that can improve the revenue generated by an E-Commerce firm. 

Keywords: Prediction, Ontology, Recommendation

    Check out the report for detailed explanation
    
